README.md, before:

## Introduction
This application operates as a Java web server using Spring framework, and its main purpose is to view and analyze past
and current Twitter trends (provided by this [API](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/trends/locations-with-trending-topics/api-reference/get-trends-available)).

The user can interrogate the server by using a simple frontend or by calling the rest APIs directly.

Once the server is started, it will periodically save the daily trends in a json file, thus providing an archive of past 
daily trends to the user.



### Routes
Name | Description | Type
------------ | -------------  | ------------- 
/twittertrends/home | Shows the home webpage, with the current day trends in a table | HTML
/twittertrends/home?date=\[dateString]&filter=\[filterExpression] | Shows the home webpage, with the filtered trends by date and expression in a table | HTML
/twittertrends/api/data | Returns all the trends of the current day | GET
/twittertrends/api/data?date=\[dateString]&filter=\[filterExpression] | returns the trends filtered by date and expression | GET
/twittertrends/api/metadata | returns the metadata of the trends model | GET
##### Notes:
- The parameter \[dateString] has to be in format 'yyyy-MM-dd'
- If in the query string the date is not present, the returned trends will be of the current day.
- If in the query string the filter expression is not present, the returned trends will be unfiltered.

### Filters
Operator | Description |  Usage| Type
------------ | -------------  | ------------- | -------------  
$and | Is true only if all argument expressions are true | `$and: [<expression_1>, ..., <expression_n>]` | Logical 
$or | Is true if any argument expression is true | `$or: [<expression_1>, ..., <expression_n>]` | Logical 
$not | Negates an expression | `$not: [ <expression>]` | Logical 
$lt | <  | `<fieldName> : $lt: <value>` | Comparison
$lte | <= | `<fieldName> : $lte: <value>` | Comparison
= or : | = | `<fieldName> = <value>` or `<fieldName> : <value>` | Comparison
$gte | \>= | `<fieldName> : $gte: <value>` | Comparison
$gt | \> | `<fieldName> : $gt: <value>` | Comparison
$lt | < | `<fieldName> : $lt: <value>` | Comparison
$bt | Is true if the field value is between the arguments | `<fieldName> : $bt: [<lowerVal>, <upperVal>]` | Set
$in | Is true if the field is any of the arguments | `<fieldName> : $in: [<value_1>, ..., <value_n>]` | Set
$nin | Is true if the field is not any of the arguments | `<fieldName> : $nin: [<value_1>, ..., <value_n>]` | Set
. | Access a sub field in a field | `<fieldName>.<subFieldName>`|Pseudo-operator 

#####Notes:
- The filter expressions are case sensitive.
- The filter expressions can be separated by any amount of spaces.
- If a value contains spaces, it has to be delimited by quotation marks.
- The dot operator can access any depth of nested fields.
- The filter expression can contain curly brackets (like in a JSON format), but it's not necessary.
- The comparison operators work on strings too. If the comparator is a $gte or a $lte, it functions like an equal; if its a $lt or a $gt it functions like a not equal.
#### Filter expression examples 
1. `country = Italy` or `country : Italy`  
Filter trend by the location's country
2. `$and: [countryCode: $in: [IT, EN, US], placeType.name = Town]`  
Get trends of locations that are towns and have a country code IT or EN or US
3. `{"$or": {["country": {"$in": {["Italy", "France", "United Kingdom"]}, "placeType.code" = 12]}`  
Get trends of locations that are either in Italy, France or United Kingdom, or that have a place type code equal to 12 (which corresponds to the type 'Country').
Note that the query is in JSON format

## Frontend
The frontend design is very simple and barebone, without compromising on functionalities and ease of use.

It's built using HTML and CSS as the view part, Thymeleaf as a very simple controller and the Spring server as the backend.
###Screenshots
## Project management

# Design and structure
### Use case diagram
![Use case diagram](/readme_assets/Use_case.png)

## UML Class diagram
#### Main package
![src package uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/src.png)
#### Models package
![models package uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/Models.png)
#### Filter package
![filter package uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/Filter.png)
#### All
![all classes uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/GLOBAL.png)

## Calls structure
## Filter design

Commit message:

Updated README (added sequence diagrams) Added date not found exception

README.md, after:

## Introduction
This application operates as a Java web server using Spring framework, and its main purpose is to view and analyze past
and current Twitter trends (provided by this [API](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/trends/locations-with-trending-topics/api-reference/get-trends-available)).

The user can interrogate the server by using a simple frontend or by calling the rest APIs directly.

Once the server is started, it will periodically save the daily trends in a json file, thus providing an archive of past 
daily trends to the user.



### Routes
Name | Description | Type
------------ | -------------  | ------------- 
/twittertrends/home | Shows the home webpage, with the current day trends in a table | HTML
/twittertrends/home?date=\[dateString]&filter=\[filterExpression] | Shows the home webpage, with the filtered trends by date and expression in a table | HTML
/twittertrends/api/trends | Returns all the trends of the current day | GET
/twittertrends/api/trends?date=\[dateString]&filter=\[filterExpression] | returns the trends filtered by date and expression | GET
/twittertrends/api/metadata | returns the metadata of the trends model | GET
##### Notes:
- The parameter \[dateString] has to be in format 'yyyy-MM-dd'
- If in the query string the date is not present, the returned trends will be of the current day.
- If in the query string the filter expression is not present, the returned trends will be unfiltered.

### Filters
Operator | Description |  Usage| Type
------------ | -------------  | ------------- | -------------  
$and | Is true only if all argument expressions are true | `$and: [<expression_1>, ..., <expression_n>]` | Logical 
$or | Is true if any argument expression is true | `$or: [<expression_1>, ..., <expression_n>]` | Logical 
$not | Negates an expression | `$not: [ <expression>]` | Logical 
$lt | <  | `<fieldName> : $lt: <value>` | Comparison
$lte | <= | `<fieldName> : $lte: <value>` | Comparison
= or : | = | `<fieldName> = <value>` or `<fieldName> : <value>` | Comparison
$gte | \>= | `<fieldName> : $gte: <value>` | Comparison
$gt | \> | `<fieldName> : $gt: <value>` | Comparison
$lt | < | `<fieldName> : $lt: <value>` | Comparison
$bt | Is true if the field value is between the arguments | `<fieldName> : $bt: [<lowerVal>, <upperVal>]` | Set
$in | Is true if the field is any of the arguments | `<fieldName> : $in: [<value_1>, ..., <value_n>]` | Set
$nin | Is true if the field is not any of the arguments | `<fieldName> : $nin: [<value_1>, ..., <value_n>]` | Set
. | Access a sub field in a field | `<fieldName>.<subFieldName>`|Pseudo-operator 


####Notes:
- The filter expressions are case sensitive.
- The filter expressions can be separated by any amount of spaces.
- If a value contains spaces, it has to be delimited by quotation marks.
- The dot operator can access any depth of nested fields.
- The filter expression can contain curly brackets (like in a JSON format), but it's not necessary.
- The comparison operators work on strings too. If the comparator is a $gte or a $lte, it functions like an equal; if its a $lt or a $gt it functions like a not equal.
#### Filter expression examples 
1. `country = Italy` or `country : Italy`  
Filter trend by the location's country
2. `$and: [countryCode: $in: [IT, EN, US], placeType.name = Town]`  
Get trends of locations that are towns and have a country code IT or EN or US
3. `{"$or": {["country": {"$in": {["Italy", "France", "United Kingdom"]}, "placeType.code" = 12]}`  
Get trends of locations that are either in Italy, France or United Kingdom, or that have a place type code equal to 12 (which corresponds to the type 'Country').
Note that the query is in JSON format

## Frontend
The frontend design is very simple and barebone, without compromising on functionalities and ease of use.

It's built using HTML and CSS as the view part, Thymeleaf as a very simple controller and the Spring server as the backend.
###Screenshots
## Project management

# Design and structure
### Use case diagram
![Use case diagram](/readme_assets/Use_case.png)

## UML Class diagram
#### Main package
![src package uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/src.png)
#### Models package
![models package uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/Models.png)
#### Filter package
![filter package uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/Filter.png)
#### All
![all classes uml](/readme_assets/UML_Packages/GLOBAL.png)

## Call sequence diagrams
#### Home page (HTML) `/home`
![homePage sequence](/readme_assets/UML_Sequences/homePage.png)
#### Home page filtered `/home?date=[dateString]&filter=[filterExpression]` (HTML)
![homePageFilter sequence](/readme_assets/UML_Sequences/homePageFilter.png)
#### Get Metadata `/api/metadata` (GET)
![metadata sequence](/readme_assets/UML_Sequences/getMetadata.png)
#### Get Trends `/api/trends` and Get Filtered Trends `/api/trends?date=[dateString]&filter=[filterExpression]` (GET)
The sequences for these REST calls are the same as the html correspectives, with the main difference that the data is 
returned in the HTTP response body as JSON instead of being formatted in the html page.  
Also in these calls, the returned object does not include the metadata and in case of an exception
the returned object is the exception message.

## Filter design
